# Madonna
Metabolic work package

### Task 1. 
Aplication of complex networks theory to model new metabolic loops brought about by small-scale and large-scale peribolism. Following the perspective of classical ecological engineering models, but using novel theoretical and computational tools we plan to develop meso- and large-scale models of ecosystems incorporating the NTN reactions set by MADONNA. Our ecosystem description incorporates both standard habitats as well as the high-energy, fuel-powered counterparts that are defined by large urban centres and industry. The later have been traditionally considered as a necessary part of the global picture and acts mainly as a producer of waste materials and sink of industrial metabolic activities. By incorporating peribolism, we will transform these type of waste/sink components into new large-scale chemical processes thus deeply changing the global dynamics. To this goal we will develop a set of mathematical and computational tools that provide a rationale for the expected responses of this global metabolism on different scales.
  #### Task 1.1 Single metabolic maps and models
### Task 2. 
Environmental impact of synthetic agents. Our modelling efforts will not only incorporate reactions, but also dedicated approaches to inspect the pluses and minuses of dealing with live —but heavily refactored microbial agents that could propagate through the Biosphere18. This will help to determine the needs of containment of the agents at stake. This lower-scale models will help to understand the resilience and optimal yield conditions of designed microorganisms and microbial consortia and create in silico tests of the proposed peribolic reactions.
### Task 3. 
Revisiting Industrial Metabolism from an authentic ecological perspective. The concept traditionally refers in a metaphoric fashion to the physical traffic of material and energy resources through the economic systems19, as long as (similarly to biological metabolism) they are processed resulting into goods and waste. We wish to go beyond mere metaphores and try to develop actual integrated models of matter and energy flows through the Biosphere and how they could be deliberately or accidentally altered by the introduction at various scales of the NTN reactions entertained in MADONNA and others that could be developed with the same technologies. Such an understanding will provide insights on how to develop policies (beyond mere prohibitions) that lead to a reduction in harmful material flows, e.g. emissions of greenhouse gases
### Task 4. 
Towards global-scale peribolic interventions for improving element cycling in the Biosphere. Although MADONNA does not envision applications of the technologies at stake beyond Laboratory scale and using agents endowed with CoC, the resulting tools and expertise paves the way for deliberately reshaping the functionality of natural ecosystems towards much more sustainable performance. To this end we will develop a suite of mathematical and computational approaches (ranging from phenomenological to mechanistic), for revisiting the principles that govern the function, dynamics and evolution of microbial ecosystems and what allows them to accept new members with novel biochemical properties. The way towards top-down synthetic ecology will require new algorithms, model-driven analysis tools, and gene function annotation.
